Docs GridLayout (#365)
telerik/blazor-docs: components/gridlayout/items.md

---
title: Items
page_title: GridLayout Items

> description: Items in the GridLayout for Blazor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Usage of layout items in the GridLayout for Blazor.
```

slug: gridlayout-items
tags: telerik,blazor,gridlayout,items
published: True
position: 5
---

# Items

> The you can control the items in the GridLayout with the parameters they expose:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control the items in the GridLayout with the parameters they expose:
```

* [Row](#row)

* [Column](#column)

* [ColumnSpan](#columnspan)

* [RowSpan](#rowspan)

* [Example: Complex Grid Layout](#example-complex-grid-layout)

## Row

> The `Row` parameter controls in which row the `GridLayoutItem` will reside. The rows in the component are `1-based`. 

Reviewer: What happens if a Row is not set?

> The `Row` parameter controls in which row the `GridLayoutItem` will reside. The rows in the component are `1-based`. If not rows are defined the items will be grouped in one column with `n` rows where `n` is the number of items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Row` parameter controls in which row the `GridLayoutItem` will reside. The row indexes in the component are `1-based`. If no rows are defined, the items will be displayed in `r = i / c` rows, where:

* `r` is the number of rows;
* `i` is the number of items;
* `c` is the number of rows;
```

![rows example](images/gridlayout-items-rows-example.png)

````CSHTML
@* Distribute the GridLayout items across the rows in a custom manner. *@

<TelerikGridLayout>
    <GridLayoutRows>
        <GridLayoutRow></GridLayoutRow>
        <GridLayoutRow></GridLayoutRow>
        <GridLayoutRow></GridLayoutRow>
    </GridLayoutRows>
    <GridLayoutItems>
        <GridLayoutItem Row="1">
            <div>
                item 1
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Row="2">
            <div>
                item 2
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Row="2">
            <div>
                item 3
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Row="3">
            <div>
                item 4
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Row="3">
            <div>
                item 5
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Row="3">
            <div>
                item 6
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
    </GridLayoutItems>
</TelerikGridLayout>
````

> ## Column

Reviewer: What happens if a Column is not set?

> The `Column` parameter controls in which row the `GridLayoutItem` will reside. The columns in the component are `1-based`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Column` parameter controls in which column the `GridLayoutItem` will reside. The columns in the component are `1-based`. 
```

> The `Column` parameter controls in which column the `GridLayoutItem` will reside. The columns in the component are `1-based`. If not columns are set the GridLayout items will be grouped in one column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Column` parameter controls in which column the `GridLayoutItem` will reside. The columns in the component are `1-based`. If no columns are defined, the GridLayout items will be displayed in one column.
```

<TelerikGridLayout>
    <GridLayoutColumns>
        <GridLayoutColumn Width="200px"></GridLayoutColumn>
        <GridLayoutColumn Width="150px"></GridLayoutColumn>
        <GridLayoutColumn Width="150px"></GridLayoutColumn>
    </GridLayoutColumns>
    <GridLayoutItems>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="1">
            <div>
                item 1
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="1">
            <div>
                item 2
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="2">
            <div>
                item 3
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="3">
            <div>
                item 4
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="3">
            <div>
                item 5
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="3">
            <div>
                item 6
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
    </GridLayoutItems>
</TelerikGridLayout>
````

>caption The result from the code snippet above

![spacing example](images/stacklayout-layout-spacing-example.gif)

## ColumnSpan

> The `ColumnSpan` parameter defines the column span that the item will occupy. 

Reviewer: Try to explain terms with different words.

```suggestion
The `ColumnSpan` parameter defines how many columns the item will occupy. 
```

>caption Change the column span of the first item with the numeric text box

````CSHTML
@* Change the column span of the first item. *@

<TelerikNumericTextBox @bind-Value="@ColumnSpan"></TelerikNumericTextBox>

<TelerikGridLayout>
    <GridLayoutColumns>
        <GridLayoutColumn Width="200px"></GridLayoutColumn>
        <GridLayoutColumn Width="150px"></GridLayoutColumn>
    </GridLayoutColumns>
    <GridLayoutItems>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="1" ColumnSpan="@ColumnSpan">
            <div>
                item 1
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="1">
            <div>
                item 2
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="2">
            <div>
                item 3
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="2">
            <div>
                item 4
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
    </GridLayoutItems>
</TelerikGridLayout>

@code {
    public int? ColumnSpan { get; set; }
}
````

## RowSpan

> The `RowSpan` parameter defines the row span that the item will occupy. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `RowSpan` parameter defines how many rows the item will occupy.
```

>caption Change the row span of the first item with the numeric text box

````CSHTML
@* Change the column span of the first item. *@

<TelerikNumericTextBox @bind-Value="@RowSpan"></TelerikNumericTextBox>

<TelerikGridLayout>
    <GridLayoutRows>
        <GridLayoutRow></GridLayoutRow>
        <GridLayoutRow></GridLayoutRow>
        <GridLayoutRow></GridLayoutRow>
    </GridLayoutRows>
    <GridLayoutItems>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="1" RowSpan="@RowSpan">
            <div>
                item 1
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="1">
            <div>
                item 2
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="2">
            <div>
                item 3
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
        <GridLayoutItem Column="2">
            <div>
                item 4
            </div>
        </GridLayoutItem>
    </GridLayoutItems>
</TelerikGridLayout>

@code {
    public int? RowSpan { get; set; }
} 
````

> ## Example: Complex Grid Layout

Reviewer: What are the pros and cons of using a GridLayout vs a Splitter layout?

> You can use the parameter exposed for the GridLayout items to create more complex layouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the exposed parameters of the GridLayout items to create more complex layouts.
```

> >caption Create a page layout with the GridLayout component. The result from the code snippet below
> 
> ![complex layout](images/gridlayout-complex-example.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![complex layout](images/gridlayout-complex-example.png)

>caption Create a page layout with the GridLayout component
```

    protected override void OnInitialized()
    {
        GenerateData();
    }

    public void GenerateData()
    {
        TreeViewData = new List<TreeViewModel>();

        TreeViewData.Add(new TreeViewModel()
        {
            Id = 1,
            Text = "Company",
            ParentId = null,
            HasChildren = true,
            TelerikIcon = "home"
        });

        TreeViewData.Add(new TreeViewModel()
        {
            Id = 2,
            Text = "Contact us",
            ParentId = 1,
            HasChildren = false,
            MyIconClass = "oi oi-envelope-closed"
        });

        TreeViewData.Add(new TreeViewModel()
        {
            Id = 3,
            Text = "Audio",
            ParentId = null,
            MyImageUrl = "https://docs.telerik.com/blazor-ui/images/speaker.png"
        });
    }

    public class TreeViewModel
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Text { get; set; }
        public bool HasChildren { get; set; }
        public int? ParentId { get; set; }
        public string TelerikIcon { get; set; }
        public string MyIconClass { get; set; }
        public string MyImageUrl { get; set; }
    }

>     public IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 30).Select(x => new SampleData

Reviewer: MyData and SampleData are not intuitive names when using multiple components and multiple data sources.
